IgxAccordion documentation topic (#2866)
IgniteUI/igniteui-docfx: en/components/accordion.md

> Note: If [singleBranchExpand]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#singleBranchExpand) property is set to *true* calling [expandAll]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#expandAll}) method would expand only the last [IgxExpansionPanel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).

### Angular Accordion Templating Example
The sample below demonstrates how elaborate filtering options can be implemented using the built in templating functionality of the [IgxExpansionPanel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).

<code-view style="height:550px" 
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}" 
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/layouts/accordion-sample-3" alt="Angular Accoridon Example">
</code-view>

<div class="divider--half"></div>

### Nested Angular Accordions Scenario

> In the following example, we are going to implement more like an application scenario where you want to create a complex FAQ section. In the sample nested [IgxAccordionComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html) is achieved by adding an [IgxAccordionComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html) inside the body of an [IgxExpansionPanel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we are going to create a complex FAQ section in order to illustrate how you can go about this commont application scenario. In the sample nested [IgxAccordionComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html) is achieved by adding an [accordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html) inside the body of an [expansion panel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).
```

```html
<igx-accordion #accordion>
     <igx-expansion-panel>
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            <igx-accordion #childAccordion>
                <igx-expansion-panel>
                    <igx-expansion-panel-header>
                        <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Nested Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
                    </igx-expansion-panel-header>
                    <igx-expansion-panel-body>
                        Content Nested Panel 1
                    </igx-expansion-panel-body>
                </igx-expansion-panel>
                ...
            </igx-accordion>
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
    ...
</igx-accordion>
```

You can see the result below.

<code-view style="height:550px" 
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}" 
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/layouts/accordion-sample-2" alt="Angular Avatar Example">
</code-view>

<div class="divider--half"></div>

## Keyboard Navigation

> Keyboard navigation in [IgxAccordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) provides a rich variety of keyboard interactions for the user. This functionality is enabled by default and allows users to navigate through the [IgxExpansionPanels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyboard navigation in the accordion provides a rich variety of keyboard interactions for the user. This functionality is enabled by default and allows users to easily navigate through the panels.
```

> The [IgxAccordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) navigation is compliant with W3C accessibility standards and convenient to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [IgxAccordionComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) navigation is compliant with W3C accessibility standards and convenient to use.
```

**Key Combinations**

 - <kbd>Tab</kbd> - moves the focus to the first(if the focus is before accordion)/next panel
 - <kbd>Shift + Tab</kbd> - moves the focus to the last(if the focus is after accordion)/previous panel
 - <kbd>Arrow Down</kbd> - moves the focus to the panel below
 - <kbd>Arrow Up</kbd> - moves the focus to the panel above
 - <kbd>Alt + Arrow Down</kbd> - expands the focused panel in the accordion
 - <kbd>Alt + Arrow Up</kbd> - collapses the focused panel in the accordion
 - <kbd>Shift + Alt + Arrow Down</kbd> - expands all enabled panels(if singleBranchExpand is set to true expands the last enabled panel)
 - <kbd>Shift + Alt + Arrow Up</kbd> - collapses all enabled panels
 - <kbd>Home</kbd> - navigates to the FIRST enabled panel in the accordion
 - <kbd>End</kbd> - navigates to the LAST enabled panel in the accordion

## Angular Accordion Styling

> The [IgxAccordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) serves only as a container for the [IgxExpansionPanels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html). This is the reason styles could be applied only through the [IgxExpansionPanels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html). Styling of the [IgxExpansionPanels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) is described in the [Styling section of the IgxExpansionPanel topic](expansion-panel.html#styling).

Reviewer: Sound tedious
```suggestion
The [accordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) serves only as a container for the underlying [panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html). Styles can be applied directly through the panel's theme, as describe in the [styling section of the IgxExpansionPanel topic](expansion-panel.html#styling).
```

---
title: Angular Accordion Component - Ignite UI for Angular
_description: With Ignite UI for Angular Accordion component, you can display a collection of vertically collapsible expansion panels. Try for FREE
_keywords: angular accordion, angular accordion component, angular accordion example, ignite ui for angular, UI controls, infragistics
---

# Angular Accordion Component Overview

The Angular Accordion Component allows users to navigate among multiple collapsible panels displayed in a single container. The accordion offers keyboard navigation and API to control the underlying panels' expansion state.

> ## Angular Accordion Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Angular Accordion Example
```

> In this basic Angular Accordion example, you can see how to define an `igx-accrodion` and its [expansion panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html). The sample also demonstrates the two types of expansion behavior. The switch button toggles the [singleBranchExpand]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#singleBranchExpand) option to either set single or multiple branches to be expanded at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this basic Angular Accordion example, you can see how to define an `igx-accrodion` and its [expansion panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html). The sample also demonstrates the two types of expansion behavior. The switch button toggles the [singleBranchExpand]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#singleBranchExpand) option to toggle between single and multiple branches to be expanded at a time.
```

<code-view style="height:460px" 
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}" 
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/layouts/accordion-sample-1" alt="Angular Avatar Example">
</code-view>

<div class="divider--half"></div>

## Getting Started with Ignite UI for Angular Accordion

To get started with the Ignite UI for Angular Accordion component, first you need to install Ignite UI for Angular. In an existing Angular application, type the following command:

```cmd
ng add igniteui-angular
```
For a complete introduction to the Ignite UI for Angular, read the [*getting started*](general/getting-started.md) topic.

The next step is to import the `IgxAccordionModule` in your app.module file. 

```typescript
// app.module.ts

...
import { IgxAccordionModule } from 'igniteui-angular';

@NgModule({
    ...
    imports: [..., IgxAccordionModule],
    ...
})
export class AppModule {}
```
Now that we have the accordion module imported, let’s get started with a basic configuration of the `igx-accordion` and its panels.

## Usage

> Every separate section in the [IgxAccordionComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html) is defined with an [expansion panel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each section in the [IgxAccordionComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html) is defined using an [expansion panel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html).
```

> Panels provide [disabled]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#disabled), [collapsed]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#collapsed) and [animationSettings]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#animationSettings}) properties, which give you the opportunity to configure the states of the panel as per your requirement. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Panels provide [disabled]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#disabled), [collapsed]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#collapsed) and [animationSettings]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#animationSettings}) properties, which give you the ability to configure the states of the panel as per your requirement. 
```

### Declaring an accordion

> The accordion simply renders any [`igx-expansion-panels`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) declared inside it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The accordion wraps all [`igx-expansion-panel`s]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) declared inside it.
```

```html
<igx-accordion #accordion [singleBranchExpand]="true">
     <igx-expansion-panel>
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            Content Panel 1
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
    <igx-expansion-panel>
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 2</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            Content Panel 2
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
</igx-accordion>
```

> Using the [panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#panels) option you can get a reference to the collection containing all [expansion panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) children of the `igx-accordion`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the [panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#panels) accessor you can get a reference to the collection containing all [expansion panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) children of the `igx-accordion`.
```

```typescript
@ViewChild('accordion', { static: true })

> public accordion!: IgxAccordionComponent;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public accordion: IgxAccordionComponent;
```

Reviewer: @kdinev 
When typescript compiler options have `strict` enabled, it leads to an error when typing properties that aren't initialized - [strict class initialization](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-2-7.html#strict-class-initialization). Since `strict` is enabled by default in @angular/cli 12+ projects, I figured we should try and keep that in mind for newer code snippets.

this.accordion.panels;
```

> As demonstrated above, [singleBranchExpand]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#singleBranchExpand) option gives you the opportunity to set whether single or multiple panels can be expanded at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As demonstrated above, the [singleBranchExpand]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#singleBranchExpand) option gives you the ability to set whether single or multiple panels can be expanded at a time.
```

> In regards to animation, you have two options. First, you could set the `animationSettings` option on a higher level for the entire accordion component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In regards to animation, you have two options. First, you could set the `animationSettings` property on a higher level for the entire accordion component:
```

> In regards to animation, you have two options. First, you could set the `animationSettings` property on a higher level for the entire accordion component:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With regards to animation, you have two options. First, you could set the `animationSettings` property on the accordion component:
```

```typescript
import { useAnimation } from "@angular/animations";
import { slideInLeft, slideOutRight } from 'igniteui-angular';
@Component({
    ...
})
export class AccordionComponent {
    public animationSettingsCustom = {
        closeAnimation: useAnimation(slideOutRight, {
            params: {
                duration: "100ms",
                toPosition: "translateX(25px)"
            }
        }),
        openAnimation: useAnimation(slideInLeft, {
            params: {
                duration: "500ms",
                fromPosition: "translateX(-15px)",
                startOpacity: 0.1
            }
        })
    };
}
```

> As you can see, we are going to use [`slideInLeft`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-slide-in-left) and [`slideOutRight`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-slide-out-right) animations from our [**inbuilt suite of animations**]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#animations) to make the component content appear from the left side and disappear on the right when collapsing the content. We further customize the animations by overwriting some of the animations' parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, we are using [`slideInLeft`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-slide-in-left) and [`slideOutRight`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-slide-out-right) animations from our [**inbuilt suite of animations**]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#animations) to make the component content appear from the left side and disappear to the right when collapsing the content. We further customize the animations by overriding some of the animations' parameters.
```

> The following snippet demonstrates some user information and the key point here is passing the animation settings to the component. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet demonstrates passing the animation settings to the component:
```

Alternatively, you have the ability to set every single [expansion panel]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html)`s [animationSettings]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html#animationSettings}) input.

```html
<igx-accordion #accordion [singleBranchExpand]="true">
     <igx-expansion-panel [animationSettings]="slideLeftRightSettings">
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            Content Panel 1
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
    <igx-expansion-panel [animationSettings]="slideTopBottomSettings">
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 2</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            Content Panel 2
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
</igx-accordion>
```

> Using the [collapseAll]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#collapseAll}) and [expandAll]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#expandAll}) methods you can respectively collapse and expand all [IgxExpansionPanels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) of the [IgxAccordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the [collapseAll]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#collapseAll}) and [expandAll]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#expandAll}) methods you can respectively collapse and expand all [IgxExpansionPanels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) of the [IgxAccordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) programmatically.
```

```html
<igx-accordion #accordion>
     <igx-expansion-panel>
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            <igx-accordion #childAccordion>
                <igx-expansion-panel>
                    <igx-expansion-panel-header>
                        <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Nested Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
                    </igx-expansion-panel-header>
                    <igx-expansion-panel-body>
                        Content Nested Panel 1
                    </igx-expansion-panel-body>
                </igx-expansion-panel>
                ...
            </igx-accordion>
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
    ...
</igx-accordion>
```

You can see the result below.

<code-view style="height:550px" 
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}" 
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/layouts/accordion-sample-2" alt="Angular Avatar Example">
</code-view>

<div class="divider--half"></div>

## Keyboard Navigation

> Keyboard navigation in the accordion provides a rich variety of keyboard interactions for the user. This functionality is enabled by default and allows users to easily navigate through the panels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keyboard navigation in the accordion provides a rich variety of keyboard interactions to the end-user. This functionality is enabled by default and allows end-users to easily navigate through the panels.
```

 - <kbd>Arrow Up</kbd> - moves the focus to the panel above
 - <kbd>Alt + Arrow Down</kbd> - expands the focused panel in the accordion
 - <kbd>Alt + Arrow Up</kbd> - collapses the focused panel in the accordion
 - <kbd>Shift + Alt + Arrow Down</kbd> - expands all enabled panels(if singleBranchExpand is set to true expands the last enabled panel)
 - <kbd>Shift + Alt + Arrow Up</kbd> - collapses all enabled panels
 - <kbd>Home</kbd> - navigates to the FIRST enabled panel in the accordion
 - <kbd>End</kbd> - navigates to the LAST enabled panel in the accordion

## Angular Accordion Styling
The [accordion]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html}) serves only as a container for the underlying [panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html). Styles can be applied directly through the panel's theme, as described in the [styling section of the IgxExpansionPanel topic](expansion-panel.html#styling).

By design, there is a margin set to the expanded panels, in case that they are positioned within an `igx-accordion`. In order to modify it there is a property exposed inside the igx-expansion-panel theme.

> In order to take advantage of the functions exposed by the theme engine, we have to import the `index` file in our style file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to take advantage of the functions exposed by the theming engine, we have to import the `index` file in our style file:
```

```scss
@import '~igniteui-angular/lib/core/styles/themes/index';
```

> Following the simplest approach, we create a new theme that extends the [igx-expansion-panel-theme]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#function-igx-expansion-panel-theme) and accepts the `$expanded-margin`   parameter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following the simplest approach, we create a new theme that extends the [igx-expansion-panel-theme]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#function-igx-expansion-panel-theme) and accepts an `$expanded-margin` parameter. 
```

```scss
$custom-panel-theme: igx-expansion-panel-theme(
    $expanded-margin: 0px
);
```
### Using CSS Variables

The last step is to include the component's theme.
```scss
:host {
    @include igx-css-vars($custom-panel-theme);
}
```

### Using Theme Overrides

> In order to style components for older browsers, like Internet Explorer 11, we have to use a different approach, since CSS variables are not supported there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to style components in Internet Explorer 11, we have to use a different approach, since CSS variables are not supported there.
```

> If the component is using the [Emulated](themes/sass/component-themes.md#view-encapsulation) ViewEncapsulation, it is necessary to `penetrate` this encapsulation using `::ng-deep`. To prevent the custom theme to leak into other components, be sure to include the `:host` selector before `::ng-deep`: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the component is using the [Emulated](themes/sass/component-themes.md#view-encapsulation) `ViewEncapsulation`, it is necessary to `penetrate` this encapsulation using `::ng-deep`. To prevent the custom theme from leaking into other components, make sure to wrap the `::ng-deep` in a `:host` selector: 
```

```scss
:host {
    ::ng-deep {
        @include igx-expansion-panel($custom-panel-theme);    
    }
}
```
## API Reference
* [IgxAccordion API]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html})
* [IgxExpansionPanel API]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html)
* [IgxExpansionPanelHeader API]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelheadercomponent.html)
* [IgxExpansionPanelBody API]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelbodycomponent.html)
* [IgxExpansionPanel Styles]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-igx-expansion-panel)

## Additional Resources

> Our community is active and always welcoming to new ideas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our community is active and always welcoming new ideas.
```

The accordion wraps all [`igx-expansion-panel`s]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) declared inside it.

```html
<igx-accordion #accordion [singleBranchExpand]="true">
     <igx-expansion-panel>
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 1</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            Content Panel 1
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
    <igx-expansion-panel>
        <igx-expansion-panel-header>
            <igx-expansion-panel-title>Title Panel 2</igx-expansion-panel-title>
        </igx-expansion-panel-header>
        <igx-expansion-panel-body>
            Content Panel 2
        </igx-expansion-panel-body>
    </igx-expansion-panel>
</igx-accordion>
```

Using the [panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxaccordioncomponent.html#panels) accessor you can get a reference to the collection containing all [expansion panels]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxexpansionpanelcomponent.html) children of the `igx-accordion`.

```typescript
@ViewChild('accordion', { static: true })

> public accordion: IgxAccordionComponent;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public accordion!: IgxAccordionComponent;
```
